Tonight again I stirred out of my sleep at three in the morning. The sound of scratching poked through the hum of my space heater. For three nights I'd let my fan and space heater duel it out all for the sake of their masking white noise. But tonight I decided against that wasteful solution which, I had come to learn, only delayed the issue and emboldened my unwelcome guest. It was a mouse. Scratching at the scraps on my kitchen counter. I didn't know that yet. I didn't know where exactly it was. Actually, that's wrong. I knew it. But I dreaded it. I dreaded the moment I might see it there in the sacred area where I prepare my food. I still suppress the thought of how many times I've cooked food in a pan which had not been washed since its last licks and nibbles by the pest.

I flashed my light, and saw the rodent cowering behind my microwave. In a state, I dug into the box of glue traps which was already at my feet. I surrounded the microwave on every side but the wall with a semicircle of traps. I grabbed my hammer. I chanted "You're gonna die. You're gonna die. You're gonna die." in an evil growl to the little creature. My plan was simple. I would lift the microwave, and the exposed mouse would try to flee, and in its panic it would run onto a glue trap and get stuck. It might seem in line with the maniacal death chant to say that from there I would have either smashed it with the hammer, or drowned it in the toilet. But in truth, I have an effeminate soft spot for animals, which is the reason this mouse---or perhaps simply other mice like it---have kept me up many nights of the year with their food-seeking intrusions. My first pacifistic solution was to seal up all the holes I could find in the place. But the mouse just kept finding holes I hadn't noticed, or boring new ones. What I knew to myself at the time was that if I caught the mouse on a glue trap, such an uncomfortable fate in and of itself, I would wait for the supermarket to open and get the necessary chemical supplies to give the mouse the most painless death I could provide.

But at the moment I lifted the microwave, I was disheartened (but not shocked) to see no mouse, only some droppings. I ascertained that it must have run out behind the gap I left between the wall and a vertically leaned glue trap---what an idiot, but maybe I just couldn't bring myself to kill the mouse after all and provided myself an out with that flaw in my defenses. I thought about where it could have escaped to. As I said before, I thought every gap in my apartment was already sealed up. I didn't know how or where this mouse was still coming and going. Quickly I deduced that it was probably either under my bed or under my fridge. I pulled the fridge out from the wall a bit, and was startled by that fast streak of greyish brown darting out from under it and through my legs. I turned, and saw it scuttle around my hamper and to the foot of my backdoor, where it wheedled its way into and under the weatherstrip. Of course! I was foolish to think the weatherstrip could have sufficed to keep a mouse out. I took up all the glue traps which I'd arranged on the counter, and carefully pasted them onto the bottom of my door. It's probably not the best solution, but my logic in that sleep-deprived state at half-past three was that when the mouse tried to come in again, it would either get slightly stuck, manage to peel itself off and get scared off and run back into the basement, or get very stuck and then it would squeal and I would arrive to deliver its reckoning and rid myself of this nuisance. Only time will tell.