I'm starting to go down this scientific rabbithole and I'm trying to get to a point where I feel like I need to get a strong grasp on why I'm doing this.

I believe that artificial super intelligence is the best bet we have to solving the problems facing mankind.

For now we'll put aside the politics of control and the issue of alignment.

For now, let us focus on ASI in a vacuum.

It seems, as is evidenced by the last several centuries' breakthroughs in engineering, that there is information in the world that, when suitably structured and analyzed, can provide us with insights and tools necessary to improve human wellbeing in a general sense.

Compared to other animals, it is amazing that humans are able to harness and utilize information in this way.

And yet, the rate of progress seems like it's become the limiting factor.

Progress seems primarily to be moreso a factor of time than anything else.

Yes we need people of strong intellenct, and well-organized teams, and the proper societal incentives, and all the other multitude of facors to align.

Time itself is less fundamental to the process than those things.

And yet, it seems that, given human history, those more fundamental puzzle pieces seem to come together without the need for some all-seeing intervener.

Yest, the last statement assumes a lack of divine intervention.

We'll set that aside for now as well too as it is beyond rational means to prove or disprove.

So it seems there is a nuance to human nature itself -- perhaps nature itself -- that, given enough time -- aligns itself into a condition where information extraction and utilization occurs.

If we assume that wellbeing is good, then it is self-evident that increasing well-being is good.

I find it beyond the limits of any currently existing human or organization of humans to solve all the problems our society faces.

Yes, beauty is important, yes happiness and fun are important, but more important seems to be wellbeing -- freedom from hunger, and disease, and suffering of all kinds.

Engineering a system that can harvest the latent information and utilize it to solve our human problems seems to be the most important thing to spend my time doing.

So what does it take to build such a system?

The ability to analyze everything in fine-grained detail and to absorb the latent information, and translate it into useful insight.

Before I leave this writing alone, I want to stress to myself these things:

- Mathematics is important because it is the must fundamental language we have for structuring information.
- Physics is important because it will require a lot of energy to be able to run this kind of system.
- Computer engineering is also important because it is likely that optimizing energy use will also require optimizing the hardware that runs this thing.
- Data science is necessary because fundamentally this system will be a machine that learns to analyze the natrual world, compress it into high fidelity useful data, and then learn from that data, and meta-learn from its own processing, and rapidly advance its knowledge base -- possibly to a halting point once it reaches optimal utility for solving humanity's problems.
- Psychology seems useful because the model we are using for this information extraction and utilization is the human mind -- nothing else we know of comes close to our capability to do such a thing.
- Biology seems similarly useful because ultimately we are biological creatures inhabiting a biological universe.

Yes, there are many levels of depth to go into this. But ultimately it seems that i am on the right track.
I need to lay my firm foundation in mathematics, data science, and computational system design.
From there I can draw inspiration from physics, psychology, and biology.
I should also surround myself with a team of experts in these fields.
But for now my role in this will be to think deeply about what sort of system it takes to harvest information from the environment and put it into human usable form for the sake of solving all of our problems.
Obviously I don't know the right questions to even ask to solve humanity's problems, other than this quesiton: "How ought humanity solve its problems and achieve optimal wellbeing for all beings?"
A super intelligent system receiving this question should be able to grasp the structure and dynamics of the universe with such high fidelity and accuracy that it could understand how to steer things into higher order
But how do you understand the structure and dynamics of the universe without observing the whole universe?
Well again, maybe you don't need to. We haven't needed, up until this point, to do such a thing to create revolutionary health and technology solutions to our problems.
Maybe this is more an issue of understanding human nature and dynamics moreso than the universe as a whole.
Maybe we can let the system analyze Earth in isolation (save maybe for the moon and the sun as their workings relate to the regulation of our earth system)

Access to the brain data of as many living creatures as possible seems fruitful.
Is there something nearly as (or possible equally or even moreso) fruitful to be gained by analyzing non-sentient natural systems and studying the nature of their optimization processes at micro and macro scales?
Understand the nature of wellbeing.
Understand the nature of harmony.
Go beyond the bounds of human intelligence and get a broad, holistic perspective on the workings of nature.
Of course, who's to say I'm right about this; I haven't given it truly sufficient thought.
And unfortunately yes, there are many scientists dedicating their lives to this.
And yet, I feel compelled to dedicate mine as well.
If there's anything unique I have to add then let me add it.
But I want to end our human plight and this seems like the best shot we've got.

##

Don't blame school for why I'm studying
That's a lie
I'm studying because I want the knowledge it takes to build a super intelligent general system-tool.


